---
type: source-paper
source_type: pubmed
item_id: pmid:24958205
url: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24958205/
title: 'Role of appetite-regulating peptides in the pathophysiology of addiction:
  implications for pharmacotherapy.'
authors:
- J&#xf6;rgen A Engel
- Elisabet Jerlhag
publish_date: 2014 Oct
content_type: review
relevance_score: 4
tags: []
doi: 10.1007/s40263-014-0178-y
---

# Role of appetite-regulating peptides in the pathophysiology of addiction: implications for pharmacotherapy.

**Authors:** J&#xf6;rgen A Engel, Elisabet Jerlhag  
**Published:** 2014 Oct  
**Venue:** Preprint  
**DOI:** 10.1007/s40263-014-0178-y  

## Abstract

Food intake and appetite are regulated by various circulating hormones including ghrelin and glucagon-like-peptide 1 (GLP-1). Ghrelin, mainly released from the stomach, increases food intake, induces appetite, enhances adiposity as well as releases growth hormone. Hypothalamic "ghrelin receptors" (GHS-R1A) have a critical role in food intake regulation, but GHS-R1A are also expressed in reward related areas. GLP-1 is produced in the intestinal mucosa as well as in the hindbrain in response to nutrient ingestion. This gut-brain hormone reduces food intake as well as regulates glucose homeostasis, foremost via GLP-1 receptors in hypothalamus and brain stem. However, GLP-1 receptors are expressed in areas intimately associated with reward regulation. Given that regulation of food and drug intake share common neurobiological substrates, the possibility that ghrelin and GLP-1 play an important role in reward regulation should be considered. Indeed, this leading article describes that the or

## Relevance

**Score:** 4/5  
Review of appetite-regulating peptides including GLP-1 in addiction pathophysiology, with pharmacotherapy implications.
