---
type: source-paper
source_type: pubmed
item_id: pmid:22492036
url: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22492036/
title: 'The glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analogue, exendin-4, decreases the rewarding
  value of food: a new role for mesolimbic GLP-1 receptors.'
authors:
- Suzanne L Dickson
- Rozita H Shirazi
- Caroline Hansson
- Filip Bergquist
- Hans Nissbrandt
- Karolina P Skibicka
publish_date: 2012 Apr 04
content_type: journal_article
relevance_score: 5
tags: []
doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.6326-11.2012
---

# The glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analogue, exendin-4, decreases the rewarding value of food: a new role for mesolimbic GLP-1 receptors.

**Authors:** Suzanne L Dickson, Rozita H Shirazi, Caroline Hansson, Filip Bergquist, Hans Nissbrandt, Karolina P Skibicka  
**Published:** 2012 Apr 04  
**Venue:** Preprint  
**DOI:** 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.6326-11.2012  

## Abstract

The glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) system is a recently established target for type 2 diabetes treatment. In addition to regulating glucose homeostasis, GLP-1 also reduces food intake. Previous studies demonstrate that the anorexigenic effects of GLP-1 can be mediated through hypothalamic and brainstem circuits which regulate homeostatic feeding. Here, we demonstrate an entirely novel neurobiological mechanism for GLP-1-induced anorexia in rats, involving direct effects of a GLP-1 agonist, Exendin-4 (EX4) on food reward that are exerted at the level of the mesolimbic reward system. We assessed the impact of peripheral, central, and intramesolimbic EX4 on two models of food reward: conditioned place preference (CPP) and progressive ratio operant-conditioning. Food-reward behavior was reduced in the CPP test by EX4, as rats no longer preferred an environment previously paired to chocolate pellets. EX4 also decreased motivated behavior for sucrose in a progressive ratio operant-condition

## Relevance

**Score:** 5/5  
Demonstrates exendin-4 reduces food reward value via mesolimbic GLP-1 receptors, directly linking GLP-1 signaling to reward circuitry beyond appetite.
